Chapter 1
INTRODUCTION
In a fast phase advancement of technology, the Katarungan Village must force itself to adapt to the rapid changes in the environment. Amidst this imperative for modernization, a quiet revolution is taking place, a transformation aimed to give new life to the outdated billing procedure. As the village embraces this evolution, a new system arises that promises efficiency and reliability in it. This change in Katarungan Village signifies not only for enhancement but also a fundamental improvement that will lead into brighter future of the Village.
PROJECT CONTEXT
	The proponents will conduct a study at the Katarungan Village 1 Araneta Street, Poblacion Muntinlupa City. The Katarungan Village Office will be considered as the specific beneficiary that will develop the proposed modern web-based water billing system. This office will act as the site for which the system will be developed and implemented. The research primarily intends to create a working web-based water billing system to automate billing calculation and mitigate the billing concerns being faced by the office current billing operations.
	The current billing process at Katarungan Village Office relies on the traditional method and is faced with several challenges that cause them a lot of manpower, excessive use of papers, inefficient way of processing the billing and complex procedures that make it more time-consuming. The absence of dedicated software leads to inefficient collaboration, it will be difficult to work with colleagues as it may require manual sharing of documents and physical copies that you need to pass personally, it hinders productivity and collaboration, that makes the work more time-consuming and requires more manpower. The process is plagued by manual tasks, and complex procedures just to process the billing and it is prone to potential errors, especially in encoding the data. Office workers find it hard to locate receipts due to the large volume of paperwork and the process of checking balances for homeowners is cumbersome and inefficient. Without a dedicated system the process of validating payment will be impacted, when a homeowner/s loses the receipt, the cashier will find it hard whether it is paid or unpaid. With a busy environment every day at the office, locating the receipt is hectic and time-consuming. 
	The need to resolve and modernize the current billing system address in the Katarungan Village Office shows that the method used is left behind or outdated. Having an inefficient system or process is challenging because it can lead to difficulties such as validating the payments especially when the homeowners or customers lose the receipt, scattered files due to having massive usage of paper, data inaccuracy and hiring new people will struggle to adjust themselves to the current process or system. In conclusion, this present billing procedure must be taken action to provide better services to the homeowners and give office staff a non-hassle job and convenience that helps to avoid burnout at work. Integration of a modernize system is needed as it can make the operation process smoother, lessen the errors and inconsistent data, and efficiency and transparency of the billing process will improve.  

		The proposed solution to mitigate the challenges faced by the current billing system is the development of a web-based system. The proponents will develop a modern water billing system that will revolutionize the water billing process at Katarungan Village, a web-based system that addresses the needs of the office and stakeholders. The system will serve as the medium for centralized work that helps efficient collaboration for better and seamless billing procedures. Water Works will be using now a system, that will be accessible to mobile phones, it will be able to input the water consumption and the system will automate the billing calculation with the preferred rate. In addition to that, the system will apply a robust security that protect the sensitive data and ensure that the system follows the standard for privacy regulations. The Development of a Modern Water Billing System: Revolutionizing Water Billing Processes at Katarungan Village is the bridge to adapt technological advancement at the Village Office and for a better technological approach to processing water billing procedures.

PURPOSE AND DESCRIPTION
	The web-based system that will develop by the proponents will include several functionalities that will help to streamline and modernize the billing process at Katarungan Village Office. The functionalities and features of the proposed web-based water billing system are:
•	Centralize Database - having a centralize database it will help to improve the collaboration within the office, which will help the billing process seamlessly, less hassle and eliminate the time-consuming job. The data can now be passed and viewed without getting out of your seat.
•	Automation - it will bring a big part in the system that makes fasten the procedure. With automation calculation of billing will be faster and more accurate as it eliminates manual calculations and potential errors.

•	Generate Digital Document - The system will be able to provide a digital document that can be sent through email. With that, the use of papers will be lessened and the creation of receipts, statement of accounts and other documents will be much quicker.
•	Reports and Analytics - The system will generate reports and analytics that will represent data in a concise format, it will summarize the entry of data in the system and will use charts and tables to understand the data easily.
•	Access Control - The system will implement an access control, it will handle the privilege of each account registered in the system. The account will have different roles and each roles have a certain privilege that can be accessed.
•	Security - The proponent will ensure to apply security measures to safeguard the data and accounts of the user. The system will implement encryption or hashing methods that will make the data more secure. In addition to that to prevent SQL injection, Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) and other malicious code attack, the system will apply preventative security to reduce the risk of being attacked.
	In addition, the system aims to change the water billing process at the Katarungan Village Office by implementing the functions and features listed above and proponents will also prioritize the user experience to help them adjust to the system for easy navigation and accessibility.
	Below are the following beneficiaries who will benefit the system:
	Office Staff/ Personnel, the web-based system will benefit office workers by helping them to make the work easier, and faster. The system will be a valuable tool in the office to increase efficiency and help them to be more productive as it offers automation in calculating bills and reduces the burden of their work because of the centralized database that will limit the use of paper and allows them to access the files needed through the system, allowing staffs/personnel focus on the tasks assigned and it improves overall operational efficiency.
	Homeowners, this system will benefit the homeowners when the receipt is lost, they can feel relieved because the system can view or track the transaction made by homeowners. they will enjoy the convenience provided by the system as they can request a statement of account which will be printed or sent through email quickly.
	Researchers, the proposed solution will give the researchers the benefit of studying the impact of technology on enhancing the efficiency of the billing system of certain offices. With this research, proponents will gain new skills and knowledge that lead to personal and professional development. In addition, it gives opportunity to the proponents to develop a system that will be significant at the Katarungan Village Office.	Future Researchers, the proposed system will be beneficial to future researchers who are working with the same ideology or field of study, this will help them as a guide for developing more advanced methodology on how to enhance the current billing system they are working on and make it more efficient and effective.
OBJECTIVE OF THE STUDY
General Objective
	The main objective of this study is to develop and implement a modern web-based water billing system at Katarungan Village Office, with a goal of revolutionizing the water billing processes and enhances work efficiency, accuracy, collaboration, and transparency.
Specific Objectives
1.	To design the web-based system with the following features:
a.	Capable of automating calculation of bills
b.	Implementation of a user-friendly interface for ease of access and navigation 
c.	Implementation of robust security measures for safeguarding the data and system integrity.
2.	To develop a web-based system using ASP.Net C# Programming Language, HTML, CSS, JS for Front End and MySQL for the designing of the databases.
3.	To develop a centralized system to enhance the collaboration and limit the use of paper.
4.	To develop a system to minimize manual task and potential mistakes.
5.	To test and improved the system using Alpha and Beta Testing method.
6.	To evaluate the performance of the system using ISO/ IEC 25010: 2011 Software Characteristics.
7.	To implement the system at Katarungan Village Office.
SCOPE AND LIMITATION
	The study was focused on developing and implementing a web-based water billing system at Katarungan Village Office to modernize the current billing system. The web-based system will cover the automation of billing calculations based on water consumption and pre-defined rates, centralization of data that enables efficient collaboration, avoiding scatter of documents and limiting the use of paper. It also includes mobile accessibility, the system will be able to access through mobile phones which will allow water works to input readings of water consumption directly and the system will implement robust security measures to ensure the safety of the accounts and protect sensitive data. To develop the web-based system proponents will use the ASP.Net framework of C# programming language that will be used to build and design the system. In developing the front end proponents will use HTML, CSS, and JS and will use MySQL as database management in the back end. In addition to that proponents will use NGROK a tool that exposes locally hosted web servers that allow them to access it online. This development of the project will be deployed at Katarungan Village Office and proponents will provide support to the staff that will use the system for them to adopt and utilize it.
	This study will disregard the automation in reading the water consumption but only in the software system. The system will not apply an advanced functionality like the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to make decisions and forecast data. The Reports and analytics only use the data that will be gathered in the system to create a forecasting of data and data representation. In addition, the solution will not be going to include hardware infrastructure such as providing a device to the office and ongoing maintenance and updates to address the changing needs of the organization.
